---
layout: default
title: 2. Lufthansa </br>Flight LH0089*
date: 2015-12-01T17:32:53.068Z
length_layout: Medium
author: jill
entry_number: 2
location: Runway to France
component_type: m_2
custom_css:
  - BigTime
interaction: null
image_css:
  - draggable
file: /assets/uploads/2_2_quote.png
---
I am writing about the nervous thoughts in my head. After my departure was delayed a week because of visa complications, I finally have the time to refocus and muster my attention. Sometimes I forget that I'm not going this alone. My desire for a better life pushes me to do the best that I can in the present moment. When I fail, I tear myself apart believing that I’ve sacrificed some unknown addition to the future. I have been asked to become more dependent; to piece myself together from my innately flawed humanity.\
I ask for humility, for honesty, and for a particular openness to vulnerability: to acknowledge the past and to be present for the future. We're closer than I’ve ever felt before now that I’m losing all senses of familiarity. I tread lightly into the water and try to imagine emerging on top on the other side.\
\
<h3>We <span class="blackletter">commune</span>.</h3>
\
My work, school, jobs, friendships, meetings, and focus all combine together in this moment. Right here, right now as I board the flight. I’ve worked hard to get myself into this seat. Now is not the time to let my nerves get the best of me. I am not scared, but I do question whether this is too good to be true. I am skeptical. I write to leave my baggage on the tarmac and I also write to pick up my few belongings in order to push the boundaries of character.\

<p class="marquee">\
<span>1.13 &nbsp; 12:43 &nbsp; Marseille, France &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.13 &nbsp; 12:43 &nbsp; Marseille, France &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.13 &nbsp; 12:43 &nbsp; Marseille, France &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
</p>