---
layout: post
title: 17. Sunday
entry_number: 17
location: Marseille City Center
date: 2015-01-18T16:15:00.000Z
length_layout: Medium
component_type: m_1
custom_css:
  - ImgAfter
file: /assets/uploads/2_17.jpg
file_2: /assets/uploads/2_17_inline1.jpg
---
Sunday comes with remarkable beauty. I make my way to the port and eat at my new favorite restaurant: Au Vieux Port. I can’t resist the simplicity of enjoying good food while looking out to the Mediterranean morning of Marseille. In celebration of the sublime, I welcome the finer breads, cheeses, meats, and vegetables into my life: my truest friends. Thinly-sliced saussison, mozzarella, and tomato, topped with salt, pepper, and arguably the most enticing house-mixed olive oil I’ve ever had. Beside the plate lies thick and fresh whole-grain, perfectly crunchy bread with a thin spread of silky-smooth butter. Arugula, olives, and brie cheese are on the other side of the plate topped with the restaurant’s olive oil and some thick balsamic vinegar. 

\
The smells, tastes, and the environment add to one entirely unprecedented appreciation for food. This brunch buffet is making my heart swell, and somehow it gets even better. I find another one of the three cheese pizzas I had last night at the end of the table. I like France. 

\
I am entirely satisfied with my choice to eat two plates of essentially the same thing. I step away from my table, look at the desserts, and am visibly overjoyed. The monolingual hostess, whose name I haven’t gotten yet, notices and smiles. Individual tarts and pastries glazed with some kind of sugary overcoat shimmer in the Marseille sunlight. My eyes do the same as I move down this table of edible gems. I want so badly to take one of each. I should have. 

\
I bring a cutely cut cube of fudge back to my table and order a coffee. There is a light dusting of white powdered sugar on top. In the middle of the square is an ornamental something; a silly berry of some kind that I won’t let distract me from the chocolate. I pushed it and it rolled cleanly from the surface of the fudge, off of my plate, and landed at the center of the table, watching in dejection. My cup came and with it came the final blow to coffee’s American doppelganger. It will never stand a chance against the European goddess demitasse of pasteurized creamy glory. 

\
The fudge was delicious, the coffee was good, the meal, supreme. I could wake up every morning just like this. For the first time in six days, I wish the situation could speak for itself. I wish I had the diligence to appropriately write about my deepest experiences here and how the food pulled these emotions from me. I imagine pages and pages quantifying and justifying why I enjoyed this, but for the sake of simplicity: yes, French food is good. It is very good. If you have a chance, get here, have some.
