---
layout: post
title: 23. Case
entry_number: 23
location: Le Vieux Port
date: 2015-01-29T16:26:28.406Z
length_layout: Medium
component_type: m_1
---
"This old parish protects me and a few others from the howling winds that wail just outside the creaky wooden doors. My canvas shoes are wet and my hip pains me through every step. It is dusk on the third Thursday that I’ve been here in France. The overcast sky and watery streets creep into the cracked church and dampen the walls. Since they cannot force their way in entirely, I imagine this is the most dreary ambiance they can muster. The dominant colors around me are black and blue and stone gray. The chill and hollow empty space are causing the church to be blustery and cold. I kneel on the smooth rounded bar at my feet and let the discomfort in my bones distract the rest of my body from the cold. I reflect on the days that have passed. 

I began this morning with appointments at LCL Bank and EDF Electricity. Finally some obligations to tend to! I’ve missed the feeling of structure that they give me. My life as a traveler is fine, but I greatly appreciate the feeling of purpose in a daily routine. Crossing the appointments off my list was rewarding. This Saturday I’m meeting with Enzo and some new friends for the Marseille-Evian soccer match. Next weekend I am either going to Grenoble or Milan. Separate groups are traveling to each respective city; we’ll see which one has their act together. Several American students studying in Paris, Lyon, and Marseille are planning a Valentine’s Day weekend trip to Barcelona. Birds of a feather eventually find one another on Facebook and make travel plans. After these 13 days of freedom from social chains, I admit it is nice to be back amongst humanity. 

My mind is a treacherous place to be. Days and nights are so different and the life I want to lead seems like a distant fantasy. What am I to do if the problems I face are the very backbone of existence? I am like the church. The winds, the cold, the worldly dissonance are all pushing at the doors. I am inside trying my hardest to distract myself from it, kneeling before the altar with the single red candle."