---
title: 0. Monument
entry_number: 0
location: --
date: 2020-07-31T02:16:19.252Z
length_layout: Large
component_type: l_1
custom_css: null
custom_bg: Green White
interaction: null
image_css:
  - draggable
file: /assets/uploads/1_0_quote.jpg
---
<a>Mediterranean waters piece together in a fluid puzzle that changes forever.</a>

I think back to where I began. When I was a kid, I would imagine what being older was like. I looked to the future and imagined how my life would be different. I thought about starting a career that would become large and impactful. I thought about my skills and hobbies that I would hone with time. I thought about all of the things that a child doesn’t understand yet.

Step by step, I made my way until I came upon the benchmark for my coming of age. I hunted for what I believed would change my personality instantly. I searched for something that would lead me to be satisfied with who and what I was. I felt too boring, too fat, not interesting, and entirely missable.

My friends and I were a small, unpopular group of high school students. One day, we were sitting in the back row of our computer science classroom. I remember that I barely learned how to code that year and that I scored a zero on my AP exam. In the last fifteen minutes of the class, we talked and laughed freely about graduation and college plans and made dumb jokes about one another. My closest friend looked over at me and spoke his mind like I had never heard before. His words fell through my cavernous self and echo still: 

<blockquote>“You will always be tragically average.”</blockquote>

This phrase comes to mind every couple of months. You will always be tragically average. As if it wasn’t supposed to be. And as if I was meant to be better but something was holding me back. “Average” meaning that I was like most people; that although I was trying to be excellent, I would inevitably fall face forward on mediocrity. As if I wasn’t damaged enough, those words cut deep. I don’t know what he was trying to say, if he meant it, or if he spoke maliciously, but it sure as hell felt like it.

Weeks later, I left for college and we all went our separate ways. I was determined to better my family’s standard of living and to be a model for my younger brothers. I worked hard to support my mother. I battled severe depression, abysmal self-esteem, and a slew of personality disorders. I worked diligently with the sole intention of making the lives of my loved ones easier. Two years later, I look back to where I began. I recognize the changes that I missed when I was younger. When I look in the mirror, I see myself the way others do. I am everything that I wished I would become in those childish fantasies.

I search for some definition. Some stake in the ground that I can point to and blame for the complicated, curious, and passionate person I’ve become. I’ve learned that there is no single line, however. I discovered that for years I walked uphill without noticing the slope. It is a steady grade that, now from the cliffs overlooking the waves, has strengthened who I am today. Knife fights, dangerously dark nights, and psychological abuse will turn any boy into a man. I was a child convinced that I was born useless, but now I have been made into something more than circumstances would suggest.

The following pages are my monument. They are built with my own two hands. They are a collection of thoughts and perspectives from the time I will spend living, studying, and travelling in France. As I write, I promise honesty and commitment. The final product will be the summation of who I am in the present day. At the threshold of some unknown adventure, I begin on terrain that will challenge my standards and test my wit against that of the world.

This book is not about faces; it is not about specificities. These entries are more than my casual writing and lack-luster photography will be able to convey. The book, like water, has many forms. Some entries are matter of fact, clear, and to the point. Through these writings, I’ve learned to appreciate words for their utility in capturing moments and in understanding the way I relate to experiences. You’ll see that these first entries have been used as something like a <span class="blackletter">coping mechanism</span> in unfamiliar territory. Others are less explicit, however. I look at the world around me and am baffled by its complexities. I have questions that I try to understand by narrating my thoughts. When I am confident in my surroundings, you’ll notice a shift in my writing. It reflects my inner peace and ability to think freely. These writings take the form of reflections on various topics or abstracted thoughts.

Look at the book as an adventure. Open to any page and see that I’ve worked hard on each one; they are gems in my eyes. My hope is that they sparkle just as beautifully in yours and, furthermore, that the reflections inspire you to look further.