---
layout: post
title: 18. Stations of the Cross
entry_number: 18
location: Notre Dame De Marseille
date: 2020-12-13T16:11:47.520Z
length_layout: X-Large
component_type: xl_1
custom_bg: pampas
file: /assets/uploads/2_18_detail.png
file_2: /assets/uploads/2_18_quote1.jpg
file_3: /assets/uploads/2_18_quote2.jpg
file_4: /assets/uploads/2_18_quote3.jpg
file_5: /assets/uploads/2_18_quote4.jpg
---
I begin at the bottom. <blockquote class="E18_Q1">I look at the things around me, the people I am with.</blockquote> I love them. These circumstances are all that I know and they are not the best. I want something better. I move myself. I am only human. Moving mountains is a daunting task, but I will try. I must because I realize that I will live, I will get attached, I will misstep, I will change, and then I will die. There needs to be something that I look back on and am proud of having built, even if this is some artificial and flawed mountain made by my hands. In the likeness of the mountains our God put on earth, I am pleased to imagine another generation learning from mine in order to build their own in it’s place. The reality is that nothing has been guaranteed to me or to any of us. This body will fail, my heart will stop, and while I can desire eternal peace all I want, desire alone is not enough to obtain it. It must be a combination of all three critical parts of me. Body, heart, and mind are pivotal in putting the immaterial within my reach. I have only one chance to make it to my goal, so there is no time to waste.

I begin at the bottom. I look up and imagine being at the church on the top of the mountain. I cannot see it and I don’t know what to expect. The city streets are crowded with movement: sounds, people in cars, detours, construction, police sirens, and accidents. I do not know the way, but I know where to begin and so I do. 

As I walk, I look at the buildings and the homes people have made. They are safe and the families inside stay. What reason do they have to make their way to the top? They can see the sky’s beauty from their windows. The sun rises every morning and they can feel golden warmth coming from the top of the belfry. They can see the sun in its entirety which seems to be good enough, for they have built their homes on their way to holiness. What more needs to be done? I have not been given such privilege. In quiet acceptance, as I have learned, <blockquote class="E18_Q2">there is no such thing as ‘fair.’</blockquote>

i. I move my feet, slowly starting up the steep path. Fast–moving cars pass me and I brush against the dirty wall trying to keep my distance from them. They are too close for my comfort. I cross streets, pass through alleyways, and make room for the strangers crossing paths. I am shown the ranges of humanity: businessmen, families, the homeless, the working–class, and the white-collar workers. I question if they are where they want to be, if they’ve reached their goals, and how they got to be at the altitude they live at now. Each of their stories is no less complicated than mine. As I climb, I am shown the outcome of our lives; I am shown how our choices change our trajectory. I see where I will one day be. Which person, specifically, I do not know. 

My body aches as I begin the hardest part of the climb. My legs pulse on the off-steps and my ankles are relieved for the moments that my body’s weight is on them. I pass the houses and move out of the residential zone. I am in a space now devoid of the sounds that come from a home, from the colors of personality, and from paved concrete pathways. The hill gets steeper and the gravel falls behind my feet. I look back and notice the small wry limestone shards falling away.

ii. <blockquote class="E18_Q3">I read, “Jesus Takes Up His Cross” on a stone plaque cemented into a rock next to the path.</blockquote> I imagine the burden pressing against His body. The thorns push deeper into Your head as Your Father’s desires are pushed onto You. Silently accepted, You carry the cross for me. I will not falter; I cannot. But when I do, I will not stay there. I see those around me, and then the ones that I love, and try hard to give of myself so that they might have the ability to build their own futures. I am futile. I am weak. I am only a man and I am only human. I may be lost if You had not carried the cross for me. 

iii. You fell; You understand that when I fall, I will get up. The sharp edges of the stones on my palms and knees are more painful than the hardest part of an easy life. I cannot stay down, lest I lose myself forever. Push off, embrace the pain, and look forward to the other side. These moments are a gift, and mine to accept if only I focus on my eyes and not those of the crowd. The judgmental, the selfish, the tears from the ones I love. In turmoil, we are uniquely vulnerable. These moments mean the most and the sake of our future is dependent on them. 

iv. Let the wicked scream and let the damned rage, but do not let me see tears from my mother. She’s raised a man that will fight for her far past death. When I was a child, my nightmares stole sleep. Over the years, those painful scenes I dreamed of made their way into reality. I am not strong like You. I will give all of myself to protect her and to fend off evil. Nothing should separate the bond between mother and child. I reflect on an offender; someone I cannot control. As You carried the cross, You saw your mother seeing You. In tears she came to You while jeering people led you to death. Your mother sees You in blood, in weakness, in pain, naked, and alone. You see her and console her. I, in my worldly mind, question my frustration. How can a son do this? You are able to give Your mother peace as You physically have none left. You are at peace amongst the greatest discord. I am in awe of Your mind and confidence. You are the one who carries the world’s people on Your shoulders as those same people reach down and peel back your skin.

v. <blockquote class="E18_Q4">If I keep my eyes fixed and watch how You suffered, will I be able to pick up and bear my cross in the same way?</blockquote> I face fear, pain, and suffering, but not with Your faith. What is the purpose of Simon? In a moment, his life changed. He was thrown to the center of attention and asked to become someone known throughout history. I’m sure he wondered, as he took the beams upon his shoulders, why he was given a burden this great. This is the same question I struggle with. With the passing of time, I see You permit suffering to weave itself in and out of my life. As my achievements grow so do the sufferings. Make me understand that You look at these struggles and hold them fondly before You pass them on to me. You watch me and give me strength just as You did Simon. For he and I are the men that help our brothers, and in turn serve You, our God, in times of need.

vi. A man with burning legs and pulsing ankles, with Your torn back and bleeding head, should be the easiest to pity. To find solidarity with another person’s pain is the most human reaction. I imagine You didn’t look for another in this crowd for such pity. Were there any that would give it to You? They saw You and should have helped from the beginning, yet none did. None but Veronica, a woman distraught by Your state; yet when she comforted You, You reflected the same kindness back to her. 

vii. I stop and rest my hands on my hips. I don’t understand. I read about Your victory in failure. I hear that in falling a second and third time, You show strength. How? Is it something as basic as the ability to fall and to continue? I understand and at the same time I do not. I raise my head and look at the rooftops below me. I move on, breathing deeply. 

viii. As I push forward, the city becomes smaller and smaller behind me. I think about the people I’ve passed and the thousands I haven’t seen in Marseille. I think about the restaurants, the shops, the bars, the lights of the city, the massive ferris wheel with metal joints illuminated in purple and blue. The sky rusts to deep orange. Of the genuine people I’ve met, how many appreciate this church that overwhelms me as I see it emerging from the trees? Do we care about the things that have been on a shelf our entire lives? Is that what this is to them? Some dusty trinket that inspires postcards and trivial things? Is disinterest a deeper hate than what Jesus saw at His Passion? As the holy women cried before Him, He turned their eyes to the violent, swearing crowd, with people refusing to accept God’s son. 

This crowd is now a different kind; more feeble and more distracted. I stand by a throng that took the bus up the ascent. There are tourists who pose on the steps to the church, one foot proudly landing a step above the other, or casually lounging on the low cement guardrail flipping their hair away from their aviators for a ‘fabulous traveler’ look. I’m beginning to understand how You felt. I know that indifference is more painful because here I feel the same flippancy from the crowd in the pit of my stomach. The people before cared enough to definitively deny You. Now I question how little Your existence means to those who use your grounds as a backdrop for a gratifying picture of themselves saying, “IDK, it shows I have depth.” 

You know me. You know my love for others. I am conflicted in finding the balance between honesty and eloquence. My tendency to be brutal against these types of people is a corner I’m rounding out. Your humanity was acknowledged in Your Passion. Here at this church it is not. The clothing of ‘humanity’ is what connects each of us. Removing that commonality dehumanizes us. To be stripped of these common threads is damaging like no other kind of hate. 

ix. As I write, I think about Your falling and explore my own shortcomings. I question the areas of my character and my person, and I see that I am jagged and flawed in nearly every way. My actions turn me red with embarrassment or shame. Through my inaction, I am often sent reeling into disappointment and frustration. In the darkness and recesses of our form, we are given way to You. Repetition, error, and resurgence is key; three things that tell me that our faults are actually bringing us closer to perfection. You are the maker of our shape and shade and are the maker of the infinitely more complicated universe.