---
layout: post
title: "25. Les Calanques: Today for Tomorrow"
entry_number: 25
location: Les Calanques
date: 2020-12-13T16:28:16.910Z
length_layout: X-Large
component_type: xl_a
custom_css:
  - ImgAfter
custom_bg: flaxSmoke
file: /assets/uploads/3_25_inline1.jpg
file_2: /assets/uploads/3_25_quote1.jpg
file_3: /assets/uploads/3_25_quote2.jpg
file_4: /assets/uploads/3_25_detail3.svg
file_5: /assets/uploads/3_25_detail2.svg
---
I promised myself I would write something once I got to the top of the mountain. <a class="E25_I1">Here I am at as the sun lowers, hidden behind a large jagged rock overlooking the water.</a> The biting wind is painfully chilling the sweat on my back. Four hours on and off the trail got me to this point. I set out without the end in mind and I can’t imagine ending anywhere else but here.<br>\
With my camera, a scarf, two oranges, a water bottle, my journal, and a pair of sunglasses packed into my grey Jan Sport, I started up to the coast. I hiked past Martine’s and the line at her food truck, and then past the official at the park reserve offices. There was a vagrant hiker returning from his stroll. My contact with people quickly ended, however, once I hit gravel.<br>\
<blockquote class="E25_Q1">The path was completely deserted for these next hours.</blockquote><br>\
I hiked and made progress toward the highest peak. I watched the path as it curved around the mountain, barely making progress toward the top. I saw it bend out of view and then return in the other direction 40 feet up the mountainside. This frustrated me. I wanted a straight line, something more direct toward the summit. I kept my heading on the compacted dirt for the sake of consistency. I left the path a few times to explore caves, lookout points, or challenging ascents. I lost my footing on the scraggly limestone gravel and cut my hands on stiff thorny bushes. They continue to see me stumble and kick me when I’m down. They leave a tally on my hands for every time I fall.<br>\
Atop one of the rock tables, I noticed a slight glimmer coming from the corner of a small, exposed rock. I crouched down to inspect it and see some crystalline structure grown from pressure. I quickly deduce this is not a stone of any value, but nevertheless I collect some nicely angled pieces in the palm of my hand and hold them. I am pleased to have been rewarded with these pale stones from my side-excursion. I carefully added them to my backpack. When I got back up, my footing was abruptly shifted by the coastal wind. I lifted my head and looked further to the side to see that three feet away was the edge of the table. I thought about how I could die here.<br>\
The descent is more dangerous than the climb. On the way up, gravity works as an equalizer and slows your pace against the mountain. Coming down, however, gravity works in the same direction as you do, resulting in an ease on your muscles. You accomplish more with less, your focus loosens, and before you know it, gravity pushes your slipping foot down and without a quick reaction, the rest of you will follow. If you aren’t careful, you fall down just when the path seems to get easier. You begin grabbing at anything to get yourself back up, even those damned bushes that cut your palms. Again, I think about how I could die here. <br>\
<blockquote class="E25_Q2">I continued on the main path and decided that for now, it’s okay to meander up the side of the mountain.</blockquote> It led me to views of Marseille and the Mediterranean Sea that I had never seen before. It gave me a tour of some neighboring cities far off in the distance along with several colorful rock formations jutting out into the water. This path was a challenge. It led me up and down the mountain and I didn’t reach the top until the very end of my trek. I faced a final large white ascent via meandering makeshift-stairs that steeply led me to the peak. Glancing between my footing and the path in front of me, disorientation slowed me down. My vision faded in and out as I made slow progress, but refused to stop. I was well aware of the danger. <br>
Filled with adrenaline, I made the final step toward the highest surface. There are no trail markings around me. There are no paths and no people. Looking around, I notice the edge of the cliff with the sea before me. To my right lies a path back towards Luminy, and to the left is Cassis miles away in the distance. I notice a dark stone pillar standing about 6 feet high, but make nothing of it. I make my way toward the very edge of the rocky cliff to behold the water and the expansive horizon before me. I imagine reaching Africa beyond my side of the water. I am still for a moment. <br>
I think about the world and begin to imagine myself from above. I see the coast, I see Notre Dame de la Garde, I see Marseille, and I see the Mediterranean countries. I cross water and land, then the entirety of the Atlantic Ocean, and I see Virginia. I am with my family and my friends; I think about how selfish it is for me to be abroad and alone. They need me and I want to be there for them. I am sad to think of what I’m missing, such as the celebrations and happy moments of my loved ones, including the harder moments. I am sad to be alone for this moment. For so long, I’ve been an advocate for independence and that being alone doesn’t make you lonely by default. Frankly, I am lonely up here on the cold mountain top, as if the presence of another would make it any warmer. <br>
I am proud of where I come from and perhaps that is why I miss it. I pick up a hefty, rounded rock with two hands and move to the edge. I want to be present for this entire journey; I want to rid myself of these thoughts that weigh me down. I let these negative thoughts leave my body by speaking my frustrations to the stone, listing names and intentions. I moved toe-to-toe with the edge of the cliff and yell as I hurl it as far away from me as I can. I look for the rock, but can’t see it once it drops beneath the edge. The pain in my throat remains. <br>
I am beyond self-doubt and confliction. I am here and am wholly present. I remind myself that I am 20 years old and living and thriving alone in a new part of the world. These feelings of isolation were expected and aren’t surprising. I remind myself that my life is changing every day and that the sacrifices I made to my family are noble, coming from the best intentions. I am not in Marseille to escape the life I lead, but to learn to be better for it. Down the road, this sacrifice will pay itself back.<br>
The wind continues to keep me on my toes, correcting my balance as it precisely moves through the threads of my clothes onto my body. I shiver, look up, and see the sun peek through the clouds. My throat burns from the strain on my vocal chords. I welcome the pain because it creates contrast amidst the cold of the air pushing around me. It’s a fire inside my body. I’ve given myself this heat source. I turn and walk in the direction of the stone pillar I noticed earlier, deep in thought. My eyes widen and stomach lurches when I realize that my next step will be into the air, off of the cliff. I think about how I could die here.<br>
I correct my heading and look in the direction of the pillar. There is a metal grating across a recess in the front. I imagine some sort of alcove for a statue in a church. I’m not sure what it is. I stop in front of it to inspect the thick, round structure and find a rope keeping the gate shut. I untie the gate, gently move it open, and see a rope hanging down the middle. I look down into the hole and am confused by the depth of the blackness. The noise of the wind stops. I can feel the sun completely. I retract my head from the stones and see that the trees are still. I turn back towards the object in front of me. It’s a well. I’ve never seen one before and stare as if it’s some fantastic thing from a child’s story. I pull on the thin coarse rope until a dented metallic bucket comes up. Echoes from falling water bounce off of the stone walls. I set the bucket on the sill and look at it, observing its familiarity, smooth sides, and dull metallic marbling. I touch my fingertips into the water, bringing a few drops to the center of my forehead. The wind comes back with vengeance and nudges the bucket off the sill. I catch the rope and lower it back into the hole, close the grating, and turn to hike back in the direction of Luminy. The sun is nearly gone and it will only get colder.