---
layout: post
title: 81. Woe, is me
entry_number: 81
location: Campus Luminy
date: 2020-12-13T17:39:50.636Z
length_layout: Medium
component_type: m_1
custom_css:
  - ImgAfter
custom_bg: gladeGreen
---
For the past 15 days, I haven’t written much. In fact, I am writing now because of something like shame. I don’t even want to have these moments in this book because I’ve been unwilling to admit my distraction. I’ve been spending too much money. My priorities have been a mixture of high productivity and vibrantly low choices. My sobriety is down the drain and not in a funny way. I’m sad. I’ve been laughing, crying, and bonding with friends. Although we’ve built strong relationships, I am skeptical about many things right now. I’m working to set up a great job when I get back to the U.S., I’m trying to take advantage of the summer I have between semesters, and I want to enjoy the time I have now, but I question how long these oddly-concocted friendships will last when they are mixed with alcohol and salt water.

I love the initiative, conviction, and ambition of the friends I’ve made on this journey. We got ourselves to France from all corners of the earth. Finally I’m not the sole decision maker in the group. We’ve been hiking, laughing, and chasing the sun as it sets past the Mediterranean water. We venture into the unknown and come out with something intangible: memories.

I’ve enjoyed my time in these moments, yet I look back and question their validity. 
I wake from a strange bed. Head spinning, I push myself to my feet and look down at the pool of vomit I am laying in. I wipe my arm across my face and pull some small chunks from my beard. My stomach sinks lower because I felt ill even before I opened my eyes. I am embarrassed, ashamed, and angry. Yet when they walk in and find me, they care for me. I doubt myself and feel like I will never live down this memory. I don’t want this and it is not who I am. My friends know this, yet I still hate it.

These now-brief moments of clear-headedness ask me to be critical. What I’ve done these past nights is out of character for me. What does this mean? I don’t think about who I am, but who can I become. What does this blurry vision make me and where will it lead me? I see that volatility in progress also includes negativity. 
Perhaps this is an indicator for caution as I move forward. I question whether this is what I’ve always wanted to see. Is this what it feels like to be “normal?” The parties I never went to and the stories I never told — are they the reality that exists on the backside of those flowery stories? I’ve visited the secret garden and its doesn’t smell as good as I’ve heard.