---
layout: post
title: 44. Collector’s Edition
entry_number: 44
location: Marseille City Center
date: 2020-12-13T16:47:09.327Z
length_layout: Large
component_type: l_1
custom_bg: gladeGreen
file: /assets/uploads/4_44_inline1.png
---
Vacation has nothing to do with location. It’s a state of mind that I’ve been fooled by. <a class="E44_I1">Placebic palm fronds and a sea of new faces have done a number on my mind.</a> I’ve fallen victim to the mirage of an empty schedule and, as if I’m crawling out of the desert searching for water, I’m craving to be alone. For the entirety of February I’ve been making my way from bus, to city, to hostel, to dinner party, to bar, to bed, to an early rise, to food, and then repeat all with a slew of new people. Now, at the beginning of Lent, I pardon myself from my own pressures to continue where I left myself off.

I’ve committed these next few days to more intimately understand my relationship with Marseille. The city and people has welcomed me so warmly, and yet every chance I’ve had, I left to go to some other place. I owe it some level of attention and I get the feeling it’s been keeping so many things from me to discover. I’ve got this pearly city at my fingertips, yet I ignored it because of the familiarity of the word ‘home.’

It’s true, I’ve been entranced by the magic of food markets, French history, and the charismatic back streets in every city I’ve been in except for Marseille. The second largest city in France surely has these and more, but I’ve just been distracted from truly experiencing them.

I make the largest meal of the day, breakfast, (which has more dinner foods than breakfast foods) and commit to fasting for the rest of the day. I leave the apartment with only my camera in my backpack and spend the morning making my way through the art district which occupies the space between the Saint Charles train station and the port. I collect some rad carrots with a huge bundle of leafy green tops from the open-air shelves. Making my way inside the storefront where all the fruits are laid out, I find one of the owners hunched over an EDF electricity bill in front of the olive containers. Then an employee’s voice comes from the back room and offers to check me out at the register. I’m the only customer in the store. At the register, there are some bananas that are lumped into my purchase, but I’m still not sure how, but I think God made it happen for a reason. I shrug it off and I paid the extra euro and change.

I excitedly come across a boucherie and step into the store, but not for meat necessarily. I pointedly search through the long glass cases and quickly pass the birds, pork, and beef. Although they look great, I was already given a banana by God. In the back where the unpopular items are, I find my prize: a sheep’s head. Five of them, actually, each for five euros. The skull is my trophy and finding it for this price is much better than I expected. A cleaned, prepped skull back home can sell for more than $50. (Side note, my entire transaction here was in French again; it’s good to be out of Spain.) He offers to cut the skull in half for me, to access the brain to eat. Quickly, and with a bit of fear in my voice, I tell him no. I consider the uselessness of a halved skull in my collection. He wraps the head and passes it to me over the glass display. I smile and skip to the register, a twinkle in my eye. I step down into the foot-path intersection just outside of the store and shade my eyes with my free hand.

My life suddenly is soundtracked by dopey synthesizers and vibrant primary colors as I spin, holding the head in both hands out in front of me. The smiley sun shines on the dancing tulips below. The growing patterns of tulips are irrelevant here in my shroom-like euphoria. Grinning like a twelve-year-old, I’m happy on a beautiful French afternoon. This excitement is so familiar and so different. Familiar because I think of Virginia and the rest of my bone collection, but different because I’ve got something to show for my venture out here to France. Marseille has officially made its way into the collection, like it belongs there and is officially a part of me. My interests and collections are part of me and the city has a place in my biography as well. I want to go home right now and begin cleaning the skull, but it’s only 13:00 and I remember my commitment to exploring Marseille today. I continue.

After I come down from my collector’s high, I put the head in my backpack and make my way downtown. On my way to wherever I am heading, I pass an intriguing pair of men living on the street. They are wearing high-laced boots, tattered fitted jeans, and embody indelible swagger. I don’t mean to be anything but honest here, but the piercings on their faces, the studs on their dingy leather jackets, and the hollow pins jammed through their hats made them look like friends already. “Bonjour Monsieur,” the one on the right happily offers. I look, nod, and smile. I pass and realize that I just found how I’ll spend the rest of the day.