---
layout: post
title: 61. To the Arcades For My Burial
entry_number: 61
location: Nimes, France
date: 2020-12-13T17:06:24.369Z
length_layout: X-Large
---
In the top tier of the coliseum, I lay out under the sun. For the first time in a long time, I can feel the heat from the sun directly and without shivery, oceanic winds interrupting. My arm is bent to use my hand as a pillow between the wide stone slab and the back of my head. I twist my neck to look down into the sand pit below.

Sand covers the middle of the Roman arenas so that when it is churned, it will mask the smell of blood. The dignitaries, the cheerers, the politicians, and the other onlookers bet on the few fighters that play to kill in a game of glory, but can not stomach the consequences. They mix the sand to cover the blood. I think about dying; more specifically, martyrdom. The sand in the center soaks up the blood of both the hunted animals and criminals. This is a place that you enter knowing that you may not leave. Your life is gambled for either fame or demise.

I think to my future visit to Rome itself, and then the Vatican. Am I walking into a coliseum with a square center? I reflect on the publicized threat of terrorism and then on my own death. I see it happen. I watch myself die several times, in several ways. A lion enters through the gates and men prod it to step out into the light of the arena. I see the death of children and visualize myself fighting for the lives of the others around me. I am ultimately bloodied and captured beneath the feet of opposition. I see smoke and tears, grimacing faces, and white light turning red. I feel the pain of laceration, torture, and morbid dehumanization.

We say there is new life in Christ, but only through physical death. Only death motivates those who oppose the Church. Masses file into the ring and wait for the game to start. It begins with some shadowy beast pouncing out of the dark. The spectacle is dramatic and ostentatious, within the true sense of showmanship. There is an explosion of dust and my vision fails. We can see outlines but cannot clarify bodies because these nouveau- Romans brought tear gas. There is jeering and booing until the first blood is shed; then come the wails of death. Tooth and nail first pierces the skin of those who are chained by fear. They are bound to the pillars by which they stand. They die before the rest while others try to get away. Father puts up a fight. Mother covers her babies as her back is torn to shreds. Blood and spine separate and red splatters in our eyes. Children watch as their mothers are disassembled and color soles like water-based paints. These stains won’t be cleaned. The son’s tears don’t last forever because his brain isn’t receiving oxygen. Father failed. The beast moves and multiplies, pulling apart from itself. Family, single, couple, layperson, teacher, or priest; different yet all the same to the only eyes that matter in St. Peter’s Square.

Their name, ISIS, s with hate, and is praised across the border. All hail and celebrate how this authority was dethroned in style and irony. I see the red and then the black. I begin to realize the severity of my choice for the coming weeks. Courage is the scale of martyrdom. None of them entered into the coliseum knowing that they would leave. That’s not how the Word works.

The turmoil of our lives must be faced with faith and conviction. Without this understanding, we are invertebrates too passive to fight. I will fight for the life that I want. I ask myself, “Am I willing to leave those people back home?” “Am I ready to be vulnerable for the sake of my convictions?” Lord knows that I can’t say, and I surely can’t write it down. I do know that I head to the Valley and that this Easter may end my life. 

— 

I will be there. With all that I have, with what I do not, with all of my gifts and talents, with my love and devotion, with my thoughts, and with my brothers and my mother in mind. I will go because it is my passion. Suddenly, these writings have more purpose. These words make sense and my body is filled with reason and value that is tangible beyond my understanding. I am more than gold in city streets or water in the desert. I am more than failing flesh and rotting bone. What I do has value. God, that hasn’t been easy to say for the last 20 years. I would never deny it but I could never believe it. It is still hard to accept love, but right now love means something real. This value has weight, matter, scale, and presence because You have shown it to me over these past months. This love swells my insides until I can no longer ignore it. My heart sways heavily and my back bends from the burden. There is new balance. It keeps my chest down and my lungs tight. I move to the altar and breathe to my capacity.

I must become better for the sake of my world. I tremble at the thought of surviving in second light. In death, there is new life. That is what You tell me and what You give me. You tell me that when I die, my life will be worth more than the business I do, the money I make, and the constructions I lead. If I change one heart, it will be worth it. I dwell on home and love. My friends and family: Mom, Matthew, Daniel, Ian, Hunter, Doe, Kez, Snek, Clem, and Kalna. I think of K, Marijka, Kalia, and Mace, Patty, Iz, and Emmie. I think of the ones I’ve let into my life. I am thankful for the ones given to me to share my time with. The times we’ve had together are worth any struggle. The time we have shared is valuable because the scale of eternity tilts with the weight of a beloved memory.

What kills me is that now is too perfect of a time to die. I love how You complete me even though I am now broken. I love the way You give my life purpose. These random pieces are connected through one vein. Your blood runs through every part of me when I am completely convicted. You’ve shown me what trust looks like in the past three months. You’ve shown me interdependence. You’ve shown me what the product of our union is through the work of my own hands. You’ve shown me that what I called “imperfection” can be made perfect. You’ve shown me loss and desolation. You have never failed to show me the view from the highest mountain. You’ve shown me the work of Your hands, and I try to give you the work of mine. I follow Your fingers and the center of Your palm. I follow Your footsteps as You lead me. I have not traveled alone for a single moment. I shiver in the warmth I never thought I deserved. I question my reality because it is created and planned by someone else. Life is beautiful beyond my current understanding. My choices and feelings that I call my own are not just mine. I don’t have the intelligence to verbalize these conclusions, leaving me in awe of the splendid world.